if you want to make real money with
affiliate marketing as fast as possible
I'm going to break it all down for you
so this business course covers
everything you need to start a
profitable affiliate marketing business
that's setting up your website the tools
you need to get started all the ways to
use AI how to write monetizable articles
join the affiliate programs and make
real affiliate income in a sustainable
ongoing way so affiliate marketing is my
favorite form of monetization it's how
my blog adaminfo.com makes over a
hundred thousand dollars a month with
that Revenue stream and I'm pumped to
share this real business information
with you so let's get started so this
full course is how to create a real
affiliate marketing business in 2023.
now it's still the best way in my
opinion to make passive income because
we're promoting other people's products
we don't need a huge audience yet and we
don't need our own product and it's a
great way to make passive income you
don't have to do a whole lot it doesn't
require a lot of money to get started
and building affiliate marketing Market
marketing website is pretty easy these
days however turning this into a real
business can be more challenging so
that's what we're going to break down
for you so first of all why affiliate
marketing where does it fit well there's
a lot of reasons to own your own website
this is the central repository of your
personal brand every personal brand
every person out there should have their
own website and even if you're a
YouTuber or on Instagram a website is
what is the central repository of the
information about you so why don't we
start a website and make a lot of
affiliate income doing the same thing
it's the starting point it's the perfect
Revenue stream if you don't have an
audience yet it dictates your initial
content strategy so the right keywords
equals money so when we think about how
do we make the most money from affiliate
marketing well we need a website because
of search intent and people buying
things online via Google search and we
need to rank for the right keywords so
ranking for the right keywords requires
that you create content around affiliate
marketing keywords and you need to know
that stuff which dictates the initial
content that you create also you can
fail a lot I failed tons of times and
the great thing about a website and
affiliate marketing is you can fail and
you don't affect customers you know it's
not an e-commerce business where you can
ship products and it messes up and
people get pissed at you you just create
content when a Blog is an infinitely
updatable asset that can be updated an
infinite number of times you can fail
lot and you learn a lot you learn about
seo on-page seo keyword research link
building affiliate marketing
monetization how the internet works you
learn it all as you do it and there's
really a lot of scams out there when
you're learning this stuff so I want you
to take it from someone like me who's
built a real affiliate business who has
a Blog adamandfro.com who's ranked for
over four years for Content who's made
over a hundred thousand dollars a month
with affiliate marketing for over 12
months in a row not somebody saying with
a nice thumbnail on YouTube saying
here's how you make five thousand
dollars a month but they don't really
have good information here which is why
we're going to take it as you know to
the next level and give real strategic
business advice here
and ultimately affiliate marketing is
the first Revenue stream of many
affiliate marketing starts then you can
do ad Revenue then you can eventually
sell your own product you can do
Consulting you can do all kinds of
different revenue streams but we need to
start somewhere and affiliate marketing
is where we start so let's talk about
building your affiliate marketing
website first so if you don't have a
website yet this is where you need to
get started
let's talk about choosing your domain
name this is why I like personal brand
websites so
the no way name doesn't matter for
ranking content on Google it doesn't
matter if you have a keyword Rich domain
name or anything like that what matters
is you have something you can fail a lot
at and you won't quit that's ultimately
what matters and I started mine at
adamandfro.com my own name I was going
to use it as like a digital resume maybe
use it for my career write a few
affiliate articles I didn't think I'd
make that much money but it ended up
working because of new startup tactics I
was using and just the fact that I
didn't quit and that was at my name now
what you can do is if you don't want to
put it at your full name I would just
say firstlastname.com you can do that
and rank for anything you choose to
write about change niches if it doesn't
work try and test new things out you
could also like I could have went back
and used something like adamsguide.com
adamsadvice.com something broad enough
where I want to be known for one thing
so I want to be in one Niche I want to
cover it but it can be me it's my name
that's why I was able to now be on
YouTube because it's just tied to my
name I didn't create a niche site called
the email marketing guy I would have
pigeonholed myself into that one
category and then I would have been
screwed for YouTube Instagram Tick Tock
and all of those things but I think a
personal brand is the perfect way to
start so first you're going to need to
host your website and this is basically
where your website stores all its files
folders images and this is the main
ongoing cost of running a websites so I
really like wpx for WordPress they have
really fast hosting and I also really
like Nexus so they offer affordable
plans starting at just 19 a month you
get a lot of perks with that so you get
features like SSL for security so https
no overage fees 24 7 support so they've
also created hosting for maximum speed
so they have a built-in CDN content
delivery Network image compression
caching to make sure everything loads
fast because site speed is a major
racking ranking Factor when it comes to
SEO I like to think of Nexus as the kind
of Hosting that people upgrade from
shared hosting to Nexus so maybe they
start at like Bluehost or HostGator they
eventually move to something like Nexus
so if you're looking for a you know
affordable WordPress hosting make sure
to click the link in the description
below and sign up for Nexus web hosting
so every web host is a little bit
different but they're super easy to set
up like you would go to either wpx or
something like Nexus you'd see their
plans and you choose their plans and you
can pay annually or monthly you could
choose something like the spark plan
this is for WordPress and then you just
go to checkout so you select the plan
you enter your information first last
name password your billing address
payment info you complete your purchase
and then it gets you into the dashboard
and these dashboards look a little bit
different but all that you have to do
really is use WordPress with them and
WordPress is the best content management
system and you install WordPress through
your host and it's usually a one-click
install so you go from your host you say
enter WordPress and then you enter
WordPress so let's run through we go
through that and then we get to what
looks like a WordPress dashboard like
this WordPress is really simple to use
um you can you know it has endless
customizations plugins themes all of
that everything's on the left hand
sidebar there's different plugins
there's different pages and posts so
we'll go through kind of using Wordpress
really quickly in a fast way for your
affiliate site first let's talk about
your theme which is under appearance
themes the theme is like you think of
Wix or Weebly it's like the design
layout of your site so we can choose a
number of different themes that are in
this WordPress repository or we find one
on our own and I recommend Cadence
Cadence WP is a great theme because they
have really perfect layouts for all
kinds of blogs content affiliate sites
they also have Cadence blocks which
allows you to create those affiliate
blocks like the things that say like
check price on Amazon check price at
Best Buy all those content blocks Pros
cons all of that kind of features you
can see they have a number of different
starter templates that you can use so
you can just check check all of these
and see which one that you like and then
we can see that when we have it we can
customize the theme inside of Wordpress
by clicking customize and it gives you
some some different settings so this is
like a little sample site we created the
cafe man
and there's colors and fonts you can
change so typography all that kind of
stuff all the way down to header footer
General post page layouts some you know
theme customization options where the
menu is home page settings how does it
display it site identity so you know add
your logo add your text and all of that
and then it's just pretty easy to to
edit these things and they all lay out
in a simple format and you know with
cadence if you're interested in learning
like the exacts Click by click process I
don't want to cover in this full this
video exactly it'll take like a 45
minutes to show you every little detail
of this but you can click the link in
the description below sign up for my
free Master Class where we cover all of
this stuff and more another nice thing
with cadence is they have Cadence blocks
so in the left hand sidebar you can go
to all your posts view your blog posts
go into individual ones that we want to
create and we know that blog posts have
a very similar format when it comes to
affiliate content so we'll cover the
exact formula and show you some examples
but we can see that like Cadence blocks
is it builds its own table of contents
maker with pulling headings in if we'd
enter and choose a new line we can
select browse what we want to add and we
can see Cadence blocks here and we can
add all kinds of different things
Advanced but countdowns Google Maps
icons Advanced images
Celia posts are really simple to write
you know it's about using Wordpress
because it has the best functionality
for creating these types of posts what
do we need when we need headings to tell
Google what this post is H1 H2 content
and then what's nice is again we go back
to we're assembling content we're not
just writing from a blank page there's a
specific way to write these kinds of
affiliate articles that rank with
headings and then you can see that this
is a nice Cadence block with two columns
image on the left side text on the right
with a button check price on Amazon with
a nice border around it top pick but you
can create these very simple affiliate
content blocks with cadence doesn't
require any coding just adding a few
little uh templates in so next let's
talk about the different plugins that
you can use so plugins extend the
functionality of Wordpress there's
plugins for everything like if you're
running a barber shop you get a calendar
Plug-In or you know reservation plug-in
for a restaurant but really when it
comes to blogging there's just some
plugins that we need we need like speed
plugins image optimization and affiliate
marketing security and a few others but
if you look at the um the plugins that
we have installed you can see the
there's different ones so there's
Cadence blocks so we installed that and
starter templates rank math is a good
one for SEO that you can use and that
optimizes your blog post meta
description indexes your site and Google
if you set it up correctly do all that
that's really simple to use short pixel
is a good image optimization tool that
one allows you to every time you upload
an image into your WordPress Library it
condenses it down into a smaller JPEG
file then there's thirsty Affiliates
which is a really good one for
uh managing and organizing all of your
affiliate links so we'll cover joining
affiliate programs but you add them into
this tool as you can see in thirsty
Affiliates you can view all your
affiliate links you click them here you
paste your affiliate link into the
destination URL you give it a name you
can organize it categorize it and save
link and we always want to make sure
that links are no follow and open in a
new tab but you know plugins are really
useful there's a ton of different
plugins that you can have if you want to
add new ones there's also word fund
security which is free which is a good
one you can go to add new and then you
can go through the plugin library and
see what there is so a lot of sites come
preloaded with jetpack which is a little
bit bloated and slows your site down you
can use classic editor but you can look
through but these are the ones that I
recommend or something just to get
started use some of these on this list
here there's a few extra plugins I like
too there's one called mammoth.docx
converter it's another free tool this
allows you to upload Google Docs
directly into WordPress so if you have
it formatted correctly in Google Docs
you can add it to Wordpress this is
helpful if you have like somebody
writing for you or a content writer or
you're writing guest posts and it's
really good so you get comfortable with
Google Docs and do that WP Rocket's also
a good one this is a paid tool but this
is the best like speed optimization tool
on WordPress there's plenty of good
tutorials online of like the exact
settings for WP rocket but that's one I
use and I recommend for Speed there's
easy table of contents which you can use
this one if you don't have Cadence or
you want to use something different but
the table of content solution that kind
of works and organizes your content and
that's really it so really when we think
about the minimum cost to get started
let's say we're using wpx 25 a month new
domain name might be 13 a year and you
pay for WP rocket let's say at 59 a year
and then short pixel you pay based on
the number of images you need to
optimize it's pretty cheap though like
ten dollars might get you could get you
thousands of images probably but the
total cost to get started of a website
for affiliate marketing is about 107
plus 20 to 25 a month so when we talk
about building your minimum viable
website that's what I call it a minimum
viable site something that's good enough
but you haven't perfected it we're not
perfectionist here we don't want to
spend a month creating a website we can
do this in a day or two here's the core
four pages you need you need a home page
an about page a Blog archive page where
your posts go and then a Blog template
so how your blogs are laid out and this
is all kind of set up for you but when
we think of a home page it's really just
here's like a backlinko example kind of
looks similar to my home page where it's
like you have a main sentence your value
proposition at the top and the thing
that's good about a homepage when you're
first starting your site you can change
it an infinite number of times I've
changed that sentence on my site
probably a hundred times by now because
my site's changed and evolved and
because it was at my name I could change
it and change different things but
really a home page is just if you look
at it in two seconds I need to
understand what this is about and this
is an opportunity to put your face out
there I know it can be uncomfortable for
some people you don't have to but you
can but a home page should be lead
collection so you know building an email
list potentially for the future even if
you don't have a product yet it's always
good to have like at least capturing
people's email and then just a few
things about you it doesn't need to be
long then an about page should be really
a personal story not really about like
your accomplishments and everything like
a LinkedIn profile how you're perfect
how you're good at this and good at that
and you went to this it should be a
really good story if you check mine out
at adaminfo.com it's more like from my
birth all the mistakes I made a little
bit about how I started the blog but you
should be very vulnerable and share
yourself with the world on your about
page
then you have a Blog archive so that's
kind of where your blog lives
so.yoursite.com blog and you can dictate
that with your theme just choosing how
it laid out so you might have a three
column layout it might be a one column
layout it doesn't really matter honestly
these things are kind of going by the
wayside people are going to find you by
Googling something and visiting your
article first so as long as it looks
good you don't have to worry about that
too much and then a Blog template this
will be set up for you in your theme how
everything's laid out what your headings
look like is there a right hand sidebar
or not you know how that works so it's
pretty simple so with affiliate
marketing you need to think like a
marketer not a writer this is not
writing this is monetizing content so
you have to be strategic with your
approach that's writing keyword research
and the layout of your posts so first
let's talk about the type of content you
have to create there's really just two
for affiliate marketing and a Blog in
general there's how people use Google
and how websites make money there's
informational content so how to do stuff
pieces of information in your Niche then
there's transactional so that's things
like best credit cards best camping gear
best modular sectionals best living room
sofas best patio furniture everything
that has best signifies search intent
signifies buyer intent and that's where
list posts come in when you're
recommending and comparing the best
products that is 99 of affiliate
revenues made through posts like that so
we can see that informational post they
might have a lot of search volume people
search for things about how to do things
a lot that can make ad Revenue passive
ad Revenue because if you're searching
like how to start a business or how to
tie your shoes you're not ready to
really buy an affiliate product yet but
it might be searched a lot so you might
as well put banner ads on those types of
posts and then affiliate Revenue comes
through transactional posts so I'm going
to break this down for you so first we
have to be strategic with our keywords
that's things like search volume and
competition so I'm going to give you
some examples we'll go through these in
what I call the keyword monetization
Matrix so there's four different types
of keywords that your blog can have and
there's two main ones that you need to
be focusing on so on the left hand side
here we have search volume which is how
many times it's searched a month so the
more it's searched the more potential
traffic you have and then on the bottom
we have competition so left to right how
competitive is it how many Authority
sites are in there how difficult is it
to rank for so first let's cover low
volume info post so this is low low
search volume and low competition these
are not that valuable however these are
what we call Early wins if you're just
starting your affiliate marketing
website and you have no traffic yet you
have no domain Authority these are some
of the ones that can help you get out of
that Google sandbox and start ranking
for anything you want to start ranking
for almost anything in your Niche so
that's low volume informational posts
what I call Early wins so this example
is like the home Niche home living room
furniture that kind of stuff so one
that's low volume informational this
tiny house kitchen ideas pretty Niche
pretty long tail not really going to
make money because it's an ideas post
people are just looking for inspiration
they're not going to purchase something
however it could be an early win for
your website you could start ranking for
something like this a lot quicker
because it's not competitive and it's
not searched a ton but you can actually
rank for it so that's kind of a good
starting point for some of your articles
next I want to cover high volume info
posts so we see that the search volume
is high the competition is generally low
and the these are great these are what I
call brand builders so you can get a lot
of traffic with these low competition
high volume there's not about a bunch of
search intent to make transactional
affiliate Revenue but these are
informational keywords so things like
dorm room ideas it's searched a lot
there's not a ton of competition for it
and it's a pretty high quality post
because you can get a lot of traffic for
it these ones can make ad Revenue
now we're moving over to the other side
this is high surge volume High
competition think of antiques this is
what I call antique keywords so things
that have been around for a long time
that are probably impossible to rank for
in the 2020s something like best vacuum
cleaner something that's been around for
ages best refrigerator best vpns best
web hosting good luck you're probably
not going to rank for it on your
affiliate website in the 2020s maybe if
you wrote that post 15 years ago but
it's difficult so these are high
competition High search volume keywords
that are transactional there might be a
few in here that you can rank for if you
look at the keyword research tools but
it'll be difficult
and then finally we have lower
competition transactional posts so these
are like medium competition potentially
medium search volume but they're kind of
living in this box here these are
emerging products so this could be
something like best modular sectional
not very competitive yet not too
competitive not overly competitive a
newer product with decent search volume
and that is where affiliate marketing
lives so these are the two right here
you want high volume info posts ideas
posts things in your Niche that can make
you affiliate ad revenue and get a lot
of traffic to your website and then
affiliate Revenue with these longer tail
emerging products in your Niche these
are the two best plus you know the
keywords in your Niche that can make you
money that are new and then also high
volume brand builders so these are the
two right here so let's break this down
really quick in my favorite SEO tool
hrefs so I'm going to show some examples
here of different keywords and we'll go
through it so again keyword is at the
heart of your affiliate marketing
strategy we don't like choose an
affiliate program and then try to
promote this brand and blast stuff on
Facebook it starts with search intent
which it starts with ranking for
keywords online and that become it comes
down to understanding this stuff at the
snap of a finger knowing this is a good
opportunity this is not a good
opportunity so I'm going to go through
this keyword monetization matrix real
quick and give you examples so
let's look at the bad examples the best
vacuum cleaners the difficulty is hard
it's been around for a long time high
volume traffic potential is all you
could get a hundred thousand visitors a
month just for this keyword but it's
pretty difficult let's look at who's
ranking for this uh we have New York
Times Good Housekeeping the spruce
ratings CNN tech radar times guide
consumerreports and people.com the
chances of a new blog ranking for this
are at probably zero at this point so
that's why it's a bad example if you
look at the top 10 ranking sites here on
ahrefs too competitive I mean these
these websites are massive and
authoritative so it would be difficult
so that why this is tough the volume's
high but it's just kind of too much
different a different example here is
the best modular sectional we can see
this was not searched at all in 2017
2018 2019 is searched now it's you know
in the last three years it has good
search volume the difficulty is a lot
lower meaning this is a number from zero
to 100 based on how difficult it is to
rank for this that's easier the traffic
potential is 27k which is actually
really high but the volume is a bit
lower than best vacuum cleaners but if
we look at the examples here we can see
there are signs that we can Rank and
what we're looking for here is low
Authority sites on the first page
ranking on Google that's a sign that you
can too so we see yes there is the
spruce.com yes there is Forbes however
when we look at domain rating which is a
number from 0 to 100 based on the
authority of the site we can see there
are low sites here on the first page so
there's bethr martin.com
there is decorhint.com
inspireddesigntalk.com as well so these
are three sites with domain ratings
under 40. one's a 22 not many backlinks
to it pretty new site and it's ranking
on page one getting a good amount of
traffic for that keyword so that's a
good sign a newer and emerging product
is easier to rank for a little bit
longer tail less competition and you see
low low Authority sites on the first
page the other example here was tiny
house kitchen ideas so low volume
low difficulty again we see a few low
Authority sites here on the first page
lilliancabinets.com is ranking for that
so this is you know you just look for
these opportunities we'll cover that and
then dorm room ideas so something that
is pretty good search volume eleven
thousand anything over 10 I consider
pretty high and like that's worth
writing for an ideas type of article
and we can see here
like by Sophia Lee who has a
teachers blogging uh she has dorm room
ideas ranking here so makes sense and
she's a 56 not that high so you'll find
examples so every Niche is a little bit
different if I just put in ideas so
let's talk about informational posts
first I can put in ideas and I can look
at matching terms here and I can see
well here's all the ideas in the world
dinner ideas painting ideas Halloween
ideas what if I made the max keyword
difficulty 10 and I made it really low
competition ideas post what would I find
well I can see there's things like
graduation cap ideas birthday a lot of
birthday party things that aren't
competitive at all I see that with like
there's actually a lot of that so if you
wanted to write about birthday party
parties and celebration ideas you could
probably get a ton of traffic to a site
around that but you do that and then
maybe you put in your Niche plus ideas
so I would put in like Kitsch um
living room ideas
and then I could look at different
things in there and I could see okay a
lot of this is competitive like living
room ideas is but not living room
curtain ideas Farmhouse living room
ideas apartment living room ideas these
are all things we could rank for and
what's interesting is informationally
there's you know different types of seed
keywords that you can use in the niche
so if your home blog it's probably ideas
living room kitchen ideas patio ideas
but if you're in Fitness and you're
running the fitness Niche you want to
create a fitness affiliate website we're
creating these posts to get a lot of
traffic they're not going to make that
affiliate Revenue but they're going to
build the business as a whole so for
that it would be like exercises if
you're in Fitness
you could find matching terms there you
see okay a lot of exercises are somewhat
competitive but what if we put the
keyword difficulty down to Max 20 and
then we look at the results for that and
we can see that okay maybe I could rank
for tricep dumbbell exercises that has
good search volume trigger finger
exercises that's interesting push
exercises jawline exercises pull for so
you find them by filtering that out or
it could be workouts
you put that keyword difficulty Max to
20 show results and you can see what all
these workouts I could write thigh
workouts upper ab workouts a lot of
things low competition you just got to
look for it and find it uh one another
interesting one in information is like
how to so I can search for how to do
stuff
um for me like there's everything how to
screenshot on a Mac is one of the most
popular ones how to lose weight all of
that what if I put in like how to start
a business very competitive but you can
start to find these ideas start a
YouTube channels less how to start a
conversation with a girl start your own
business Drop Shipping so how to's are
also interesting another one that you
would look at if you're a food blog
informationally would be recipes that's
why they make so much ad Revenue with
those is because they're writing all
kinds of different recipes and I'll put
like Max 30s see what comes up in
different recipes endless amount so you
could do like chuck roast recipes 60 000
searches a month cube steak recipes
shredded chicken recipes kielbasa flank
steak if you had a recipe Food blog you
know you for food you would probably
like affiliate opportunities would be
like Gadgets in the kitchen expensive
items in the home things that can help
you the products to cook but then mainly
it's recipes that's the informational
intent of that Niche so you could rank
for a lot of recipes that way so that's
a little bit about informational content
now let's talk about transactional
affiliate articles so the example I had
here before was best modular sectionals
but how do we find these opportunities
for affiliate Revenue well we put in
best plus our niche so I could try best
kitchen and then I could look at
different matching terms that include
the term best kitchen with other things
I could then filter this down I can see
if I make the keyword Max keyword
difficulty something like 25 and I just
do the results there I'll be able to see
different opportunities so things like
kitchen towels
see how Kitchen Nightmares episodes is
in here and the difficulty is so low
because things that are not very
monetizable are going to be lower so
things that can make more money are
going to have more competition more
people writing the Articles around it
you have to find your sweet spot in the
middle
where you can still rank for these
things that are newer things so
there's kitchen rugs kitchen torch
kitchen gifts kitchen shoes kitchen mats
lots of things what about like uh faucet
best kitchen faucet
best touchless kitchen faucet is a great
one right there pretty expensive
probably it's the one that you touch
1000 search volume low difficulty and
you can do this in any Niche like
fishing
you search for best fishing and then you
just look and see the difficulty in what
you can rank for so you can see things
like best braided fishing line best
sunglasses for fishing fishing line best
bass fishing line reels boats lures you
find all these opportunities and it's
just giving you what to write what
articles to create for your blog golf
clubs bags grips drivers
irons you could just keep going on and
on kayaking best kayaking best you know
inflatable kayak fishing kayak amazing
hot tub I mean any anything that you
think about Amazon you can create you
just have to stay in one Niche but you
create this content best you know hot
tub for money best hot tub covers Plug
and Play Hot Tub the list is really
endless but you find them with best and
then we start stack ranking these
keywords based on what will make us the
most affiliate Revenue so that includes
what is the search volume what is the
competition how do you how well do you
think you can Rank and then what is the
affiliate what I call the affiliate
Revenue potential this is something that
takes a little bit of brain power that's
not in one of these tools how much
affiliate money can you make and
typically that's how expensive is the
product that you're promoting and then
what is the commission rate of that
company so if I'm talking about a five
thousand dollar hot tub and I have a 10
commission from that hot tub company
well then that's 500 every single time
someone is buying something from me so
we don't want to be going after you know
promoting
things that are cheap a pair of socks
paper clips best paper clips of 2023
that doesn't sound all that exciting but
if you have something that is worth more
money you just have to live in the zone
of understanding this stuff because
everything that's been around forever
and can make people money is very
competitive but there's new products
emerging all the time so that's the key
in the heart and soul of your affiliate
marketing business is finding keywords
being on The Cutting Edge and finding
this stuff so for example I did this
with my own I did best software I put
that in and then I looked at you know
what was emerging what was new a lot of
it was very competitive but I I got in
early so timing is a crucial component
of this too one I did was like best uh
podcast hosting so I rank for that now
somewhere and it's like the difficulty
is now 56. uh it's pretty tough to rank
for but if you look at it I'm on page
one for that you know and I make 9 000
plus dollars a month from that usually
nine to thirteen thousand dollars a
month because I've been recurring and
making income so it's finding and
spotting Trends sometimes even even the
keywords aren't even in a traps or a
tool like this you'd have to go to
Google Trends to spot something and this
is where your personal brand Niche
selection knowing what you're talking
about really helps because you might
know a certain area and have expertise
and find affiliate marketing
opportunities before anyone else and
that's the key too like knowing about
what you're talking about can actually
help you rank for stuff because you know
about it and write about it way earlier
than other people do so we can stack
rank these keywords just add them into a
spreadsheet put some information on them
and just keep them in one place you have
them you know ready to use so we have
keywords but now what do we do well
successful articles that make money
they're assembled not written they're
not written generally and creatively and
now they're all different they're all
pretty much the same and this is what I
call the content assembly line method so
here's the truth not every single
article you write is going to rank maybe
20 of them will rank so 80 of your time
is going to be spent on articles that
don't rank so how do we maximize our
efficiency to create much content as we
can high quality content not poor
quality content but good content where
we're actually moving on creating more
articles and not being perfectionists I
remember when I started my blog I spent
two weeks on an article because I
thought it was amazing it was about
human nature and human potential and why
we don't live up to our potential and it
was a good article but I've since
deleted it from my site because it
didn't get any traffic no one gave a
 it wasn't optimized for keywords so
the content assembly line method is
thinking like Henry Ford your blog is
like Henry Ford or like McDonald's you
need to master the process of content
creation yourself have a system and a
process for it and you can do that
before you Outsource it to another
writer this is why an affiliate
marketing business is great because it's
the one type of business that doesn't
require your direct input I created
YouTube videos because I want to expand
my business and personal brand outside
of blogging but you don't have to do
that you can if you want to go to like
seven eight figures but if you want to
stay in six figures you just create a
blog but we need to
create a replicable process for Content
creation because we're busy we might
have kids we have responsibilities we
have a we all all of us most of us
probably start a blog with a full-time
job like I did
so how do we do this well first is we
create a minimum viable post an MVP
something that's good enough move on so
if I'm creating the best modular
sectionals article I'm not going to
create the 25 best and look up
everything like write the perfect review
I'll start with five or I'll start with
seven and then I'll create a good enough
article that's long enough based on the
competition that's optimized for on-page
SEO that can rank but I'm not going to
be perfect I'm not going to make it 10
000 words long we can also use Ai and
SEO tools so things like Surfer SEO
which is definitely recommended the
first one I actually really recommend
that you buy at an ongoing basis I'll
cover that but things that tell you
exactly how to do this on page SEO then
we have the same format of these
articles then we publish it we let
Google index it and then we can always
go back and update blog posts so blog
post should be updated every like three
to six months or so and that depends on
the niche if it's really evergreen or
not and we have we add eventually we add
unique content to it things like those
content blocks I showed you your own
unique take maybe infographic a video
something that you know can be added
over the course of a year or two later
on but we have to make it eventually
unique rewrite the intro make it better
for human beings so we start with a
minimum viable post optimized for SEO
and then over time we update this and
that is the key to ranking this content
so first we have to talk about the
article structure in on-page SEO so
there's a lot of different factors here
there's the URL there's your headline
there's intros there's blocks there's
content so how do we lay it all out well
first we talk about the URL the URL of
your blog post is really the only thing
that you can't change so we put that
Target keyword into the URL and no other
things so you don't add like the full
title into that URL you don't add the
year because the year will change and
then you have to change your URL the URL
is the only thing you can't change
because what if like you change it but
you have links pointing to it now those
are 404 broken links or you get
backlinks from other sites to you so
that needs to stay the same everything
else the title the content everything
inside of it can change really there's
different things for on-page SEO there's
title there's your blog title headings
content meta descriptions and then you
can use different tools you can use like
rank math to cover some of these bases
you can use Moz to check your title tag
to make sure it's not truncated and it's
the right length and it looks good but
you can do that you also want to
probably have a table of contents
because easy navigation people clicking
around being able to access stuff easy
to navigate blog posts are good for SEO
because it keeps people engaged it keeps
them longer dwell time maybe a lower
bounce rate and things like that let me
talk about affiliate content blocks so
these should eventually be added to all
your posts they don't need to be added
right away and these bring eyeballs to
your links you get more clicks on your
affiliate links you can make more money
and these can be created with cadence or
tool X Specter as well but there's a
basic structure that we'll cover so
we'll run through a few examples here of
exactly how posts should be laid out but
there's an H1 heading intro H2S h3s and
it's a templatized Content assembly line
method so first I'm going to show my own
site this is my article on the best
webinar software of April 2023 I changed
that every month and then what we have
here is an introduction and this
includes the target keyword webinar
software or best webinar software right
here as well that's in the Target the
title so the title should be number plus
plus your target keyword plus what I
call search intent trigger words this is
kind of like click bait but being more
helpful so you want to add some stuff to
get people to click because higher
click-through rates on the Google search
results can also help you odd numbers
typically work better than even numbers
as well for some reason
now I have a five column across block
section you can do this or not I didn't
have this for the first like year year
and a half of this article so it's not a
big deal you could do a top three even
these are affiliate links here going to
the site but here we have we have an
introduction very simple you want to
give uh some information basically with
an affiliate list post for on-page SEO
like this the goal is to cover your
bases so that when someone reads this
they feel like they got all the bases
covered and they understand everything
but the big thing here is
this is the format this is your first H2
heading so H2 is the second most
important type of heading next to your
H1 so H2 includes what is the plus your
target keyword what is the best webinar
software and we write this because this
is how Google likes to read stuff if
everything was just paragraph text on
the page Google wouldn't understand
what's most important or how to organize
stuff or pull it into a featured snippet
or where to rank it or any of that stuff
so this is uh the best format for it is
H2 and then we have the answers to this
question so the answers are h3s which is
the title of the company this is an H3
heading so this is number one which is
livestorm I had a sentence here that it
you know is kind of gives it what it's
best for as a high level overview of
someone skimming because people honestly
skim these articles they don't read
every single word especially when it
comes to this they want to just click
through on the affiliate links learn a
little bit about it but I give my take
you know this is also a new section that
we created this is an affiliate link and
then we have you know the content of the
actual review so we have a little bit of
paragraph content you'll see that the
link was added here we have images and
then we have features we have user
experience we have pricing so we go over
the pricing what it costs what I like
and dislike product recent product
updates a call to action sentence you
know you can get started for free and
upgrade to a Premium plan and then a
button so these are all easy to create
In Cadence blocks but once we're done
with that we have this information
um it's the exact same thing for number
two three four five and six so this is
these are actually longer and I started
with probably half this length of
content for each company but over time
over the years we update it and add more
content and make it a little bit better
now here's the question do you have to
use every single product in your
affiliate list post the answer is no but
this is again going back to where
personal branding and Niche selection
come in I was in the software world for
a little while I used a lot of these
tools I was a um I worked in the tech
World in Austin so I had a lot of
experience here and with software you
can even free trial the software and
like look at stuff and test it out a
little bit
ultimately we want to create the most
helpful content possible so Google
created what's called The Helpful
content update in 2022 and really it's
like anything that's not adding to the
conversation or making things more you
know valuable is not going to be ranked
as well so you can't just like pull
features from livestorm.com pull the
exact same thing that used to work you
could just pull features from the
website some competitor sites put it in
here rewrite it make it your own a
little bit maybe test it a little bit
but that's just not working as well
anymore so you really have to you know
this is where your Niche expertise comes
in now I'm not saying if you're a
photography blogger or you want to make
money via affiliate marketing for like
camcorders so you have to go buy
Seventeen five thousand dollar cameras
that's not realistic and when you look
at the internet and see who's ranking
for this stuff like Tom's guide CNET
they're not they're they have thousands
and thousands of products on their
website they're literally not testing
every single one it's the unfortunate
truth of the internet which is you know
reviews are based on ranking SEO if
you're really SEO and strategy not
necessarily always what's the best
but it's a templatized way to do it
let's look at another example best rock
climbing shoes of 2023 this is
Switchback travel which is a outdoor
site they talk about all kinds of stuff
but we see introduction some of their
top picks at the top so that's easy to
click through the affiliate links and
then the best overall you know number
one down the line number two and again
it has the sentence about what it's best
for
I like this layout better than mine they
probably have more money than me and
they you know they spend a lot more
content but you know you you make do
with what you can and these are
affiliate links so anytime someone
clicks through and purchases this shoe
219 shoe they get a commission from Back
Country so
similar layout
uh there's another one here from Gizmodo
the best vegan protein powders
introduction top picks and then all of
this information now you'll see
sometimes like with very specific stuff
like television supplements things that
have a lot of facts they have a lot of
different layouts here with
um columns and rows and so you can get
creative with it again when you're first
starting you don't need any of this
fancy stuff you can just literally have
H2 what is the best H3 numbered list of
the companies or products and then
paragraph text just make sure you're
covering what kind of features what kind
of things should be covered in that
product review here's another one the 25
best luxury watches for men show up in
style in 2023 I'm not super fancy so I
don't really care about what I look like
that much
um so we see there's also ads in this
post so affiliate marketing is great
because you can also have ads on your
affiliate articles if you want sometimes
it makes sense sometimes it doesn't if
it's a really profitable affiliate
article probably and it doesn't get a
ton of traffic but it makes a ton of
affiliate Revenue probably doesn't make
sense to have ads because if you're
making a few grand and then you make 20
more in ads it just distracts people but
you can have both and this is again the
top overall picks going to very much
luxury watches the number one which
price is only available upon request
which means we know it's very very
expensive probably and also just a quick
note on these how-to or informational
posts they're pretty much formatted and
written the exact same way so like
here's my post on how to start a blog
and as you see the internet is lists
people love lists people understand
information in a list format so even the
info content the recipes the exercises
the how to do things those informational
posts that can make you add revenue and
link to your affiliate posts they're
pretty much formatted the same way too
introduction and then a number of
different steps now when you're writing
a how-to guide you can actually add
affiliate links in a slightly different
way
so I would add them as part of the
process of doing the thing that you're
doing so any website that is making
affiliate Revenue has these two types of
posts informational and transactional so
how to do stuff and then the products
you need to do those things so when
we're talking about how to you would add
it like this a little bit more naturally
in the content here's the steps to set
up your blog this is exactly how you do
it with Bluehost so sign up here click
that link so you write it but also
as we see here a how-to guide is also a
numbered list of different steps in a
process so again it's just what are the
steps what's the most helpful how do we
have table of contents in that so it's a
similar process to write these kinds of
Articles as well so let's talk about
speeding up the content creation process
with AI so there's a lot of new AI tools
on the market that can help us we don't
have to write as much anymore it's great
so
here's what I reckon here some of the
tools I recommend I'm gonna go through
them one by one so chat GPT obviously
everyone knows that one this is not
great for like writing full articles but
it's best for ideation so coming up with
ideas and that's things like keyword
ideas you can do topical Authority
mapping so give me article ideas based
around this keyword that'll cover my
topical map and make me look like an SEO
expert they can come up with titles
outlines and then really short articles
simple ones that you can edit but it's
great for ideation coming up with ideas
another one is Jasper so this is
in-depth content creation so this is you
know built on top of AI tools to help
you with your content creation this is
best for manual AI content so yes it has
a ways to write content itself but you
have to do a little bit more work on
your end to give it the right inputs
make sure that it's formatted correctly
give it the right recipe and work on it
that way and then probably edit it a
good amount so it's not uh you know
looks like AI content another one is
content at scale so this is the best for
Rapid content creation so this is the
best one where basically all you do is
you put in here's my keyword this is how
long I want the article to be a few
check boxes here and there you hit enter
and then it will in about five minutes
or so finish the article for you and
it's pretty much done and then you put
it through an SEO tool like server SEO
so this is the must have one the first
real software costs that I recommend
after web hosting so for a real
affiliate marketing business if you have
no money to start a business then you
shouldn't start this affiliate marketing
business because it doesn't take much
we're not starting a brick and mortar
business we don't have inventory and
overhead and rent and employees like
most traditional businesses do we can
start a business online in this
affiliate business that makes 90 profit
margins for twenty dollars a month or
whatever it is but we have to you know
people ask me a lot how much does hrefs
cost well it's 100 to 200 a month which
isn't low you can get the 99 a month
plan
um you can share it with somebody we
have people in our blog growth engine
community that share accounts sometimes
or they help each other out or you can
sign up for a month and then cancel do
all your keyword research and cancel uh
Surfer is the first one at 49 a month
that I recommend because it gives you
exactly what to do for on-page SEO so
for example I had an article here about
GoDaddy Alternatives it gives you a
Content score it gives you how many
words you need in the article how many
headings how many paragraphs how many
images and then it gives you all the
semantic keywords you need and this is
really important so human beings we
can't come up with every single
variation of the word that Google's
natural language processing and machine
learning expects to see in this
affiliate article but Surfer SEO will
tell us that so it says you should put
the word website builder in here eight
to 13 times
you should put in random stuff here free
SSL certificate this many times so you
or a writer or somebody should go
through this and get this Surfer score
up and then this gives it a better
chance of ranking and the truth is a lot
of people are using these tools so if
you're not and you're just thinking that
you're going to write the next thing
well Google's scanning all the Articles
and the ones that have all this stuff
all these words in it makes it seem more
robust a better article so they're going
to outrank you so Surfer is one that
gives you the semantic keywords and it's
the best for on-page SEO so you can
definitely check that out
um so that's the one I fully recommend
it's really the one of the first ones
you definitely need content scale is a
really good one too if you have the
money too and you don't want to write
everything yourself click the link in
the description below for that one if
you're interested now once you have
content we have a keyword plan
we have our content assembly method
mapped out we have a few articles on our
blog and maybe your ranking it's time to
join affiliate programs so I don't
recommend you join affiliate programs
before you have any traffic to your site
with zero traffic it's just kind of a
waste of time you're not going to make
money anyways you might as well wait
till you're getting some traffic in but
there's some popular affiliate networks
you can join like share a sale Amazon
Associates this list here partner stack
if you're promoting software impact's
one of my favorite ones they have a ton
of companies in there but you can sign
up for a network where there's a bunch
of individual affiliate programs and
companies inside and you can join those
inside of the network there's also
individual affiliate programs so you can
also find them by like Googling the
product plus reviewer best find brands
that it's linking to you could also just
Google like uh you know if you're in our
outdoor Niche you could Google like REI
affiliate program Dick's Sporting Goods
affiliate program all of that the lowest
competition niches out there are
physical products so things like Amazon
Associates you can join at first but
they have low commission rates low
cookie duration so you'd eventually want
to replace those Amazon links with
actual company affiliate links so let's
say you're writing about the best
basketball hoops of 2023 you could just
send all of it to Amazon at first and
then you eventually once you start
getting a little bit of traffic you
could join like the Dick's Sporting
Goods affiliate program then In Cadence
blocks you could add both links check
price on Amazon check price on
dickssportinggoods.com or anything else
but the key is we want to diversify and
join a lot of different programs and
they're pretty easy to find again you
can Google the company plus affiliate
program they even sometimes have it in
the footer of their website and it's
just a simple
sign up form basically so you sign up
you put in your website people say do
you need a website if you're not willing
to make a website then you shouldn't
start an affiliate marketing business
period so there's a learning curve on
this a little bit but we have to do
things that are a little bit difficult
if we want to actually make real money
we can't just say do I need a website to
do this can I just grab the link and put
it like okay maybe if you have a large
social following you can do that our
YouTube channel YouTube is also good for
affiliate marketing but typically for
these networks if you're signing up you
put in your website your email address
which should be a domain name email
address like uh mine's like adaminfo.com
instead of a Gmail it just looks more
professional that's pretty much all you
need you also need a PayPal account to
get paid so if you're outside and you
can't get a PayPal account it's kind of
tough you might be able to find ways so
they can pay your bank directly but
PayPal is one of the most common ways to
do it like partner stack uses stripe as
well so every Network every company is a
little bit different
now let's talk about adding affiliate
links to your site so there's different
types of affiliate links there's like
Banner ad affiliate links so you can
grab or text affiliate links so text
affiliate links are the ones that you
saw on my site that are just in the text
highlighted or in buttons those are the
ones that make all the money if the
search intent is there and somebody's
searching for something they want to buy
best webinar software they land on that
article they see the number one
recommendation they're just clicking
those text links through so those are
the ones that actually convert now
adding your affiliate links into
WordPress includes how I showed you
earlier adding pasting it into getting
that link from the affiliate platform
once you're approved copying and pasting
that into thirsty Affiliates giving it a
title that's pretty much it and then
anytime you add it in you go to your
post you click instead of inserting a
link there's going to be a little button
that pops up next to it says ta thirsty
Affiliates you search for it in there
and that adds the text Link in very
simple and then if the link changes ever
or there's a new promotion or something
you can just change the link once in
thirsty Affiliates and all of them will
update
so I covered you know how do you
optimize an article with affiliate links
well in transactional posts let's look
at my posts on online course platforms
real quick so as you see this is another
one it's formatted just like webinar
software there's the introduction I have
a video but then when we think about
where do we add affiliate links well we
don't want to overdo it but we don't
want to underdo it so what I do is I add
it to the first mention this is an
affiliate link I add it here these two
are affiliate links I added in the very
first paragraph mention of the brand
that's a good one and then pretty much
you just you don't have to mention it
much anymore you just go all the way
down to where the button is and then
what I would do is I would add one more
in a call to action sentence I could
have added it you know here or get
started today I could have added it
there but I just have it here and here
as a button so you want to edit like
three to five times in each company's
little section and be done with it we
don't want to overdo it they're pretty
much going to click the button something
close to the button or something near
the top and then back to uh
informational post how to start a blog I
already showed you that that's like in
the steps of the process this is what
you have to do go here do this thing
sign up for this so there's another
question how do you order these
companies in your post well if you're
starting a new affiliate article you
want to look at the competition what's
already ranking out there
um because if somebody's been ranking
for a highly competitive or profitable
keyword or even just a new and emerging
keyword they probably have some data and
they're ordering things in the right
order
so you look at the price you look at the
commission rates and the hidden one is
the conversion rates so as a blogger as
an affiliate marketing business owner we
have control over
you know our ranking how many clicks
we're getting in our affiliate links but
once we send the affiliate link click to
the company it is 100 on them to convert
that user that visitor into a customer
and sometimes there's brands that have
horrible conversion rates even though
you think they're going to be good so
for example if you are recommending golf
drivers you don't want to put like a
five thousand dollar set number one you
typically want to put the medium like
best well-known popular mid-tier company
number one because that's the one most
people are gonna buy so even though it's
like oh the price and the commission
rate look great it's five thousand
dollars eight percent commission I'd
make way more than if it was a thousand
dollars but the hidden factor is that
conversion rate of the actual brand so
like sometimes it could be zero I've
seen where like the price or the
commission rate I was receiving was
three times higher so I'm like oh I'm
gonna make more money but then I made
nothing because the brand couldn't
convert so you have to think about how
well known and popular the brand is and
that's the ordering and luckily you know
if you know your Niche well it's easier
and typically the most popular and best
companies the ones that actually have
the best affiliate programs are usually
the best companies anyway so it actually
works out for everybody all right
finally let's talk about running a real
affiliate marketing business and some
strategies here first we have to say
don't put all your eggs in one basket
don't Join one affiliate program rely on
one article this is a you need a machine
behind this a Content assembly line a
way to add and join affiliate programs
and something that's you know
consistently being
gasoline is being poured in and it's
keep being done so is it completely 100
passive no there's no such thing as
passive income you have to put the
working up front you have to water the
plants if you want to keep them alive
but you could have somebody else
watering the plants eventually which is
the nice part I barely spend any time on
my blog now but it makes typically 150
000 a month so we don't want to put it
all in one basket we need to diversify
our business so that means joining a lot
of affiliate programs not just having
one article rank but eventually having
five to ten articles ranking making
consistent Revenue there's a lot of
disciplines when it comes to running an
affiliate marketing business there's
writing the content there's joining the
programs and networks there's adding
affiliate links and tracking the
performance actually getting paid so
usually it's just as easy as PayPal and
they do it automatically but sometimes
Brands can be a pain in the ass and
they're like
send me an invoice for the exact amount
or fill out this tax form or do this or
that so we really need an affiliate
marketing machine behind all of this so
similar to the content assembly line we
need a process to do all this to join
programs to add links to track data to
get paid this is an ongoing process that
never stops when you're first starting
your blog and you're getting momentum
and you're ranking for stuff you're
probably joining a lot of programs
adding a lot of links in and doing all
of that then you kind of get to a steady
state like now I don't join a ton of new
programs you know we do write new and
emerging transactional articles but
we're not like it's not in that phase
anymore it's kind of the steady state
phase but here's what I would do to
start adding affiliate links in and
getting this machine and business
running so you create your website you
do your keyword research like I taught
you create a Content process to create
monetizable articles and then
maybe you update the Articles and then
what you do is you track landing page
sessions in Google analytics so you want
to see all right is this is this actual
article getting any traffic once it's
getting a little bit of traffic then
it's time to look at joining and adding
these affiliate links in
so you can join the programs you add in
your links so usually you just start
with the base length directly to the
product no affiliate link just link to
it then you swap that out with an
affiliate link then you want to track
your data so look at the affiliate
dashboards whether it's a network or a
program and then you want to make
adjustments based on one to three months
of data so is that company making money
in the number one spot is the number two
company making more than that should
they be put higher do you want to talk
to the affiliate manager can you get a
higher commission rate can you negotiate
make sure you get paid and rinse and
repeat so really it's a process of
getting the Articles to rank once
they're on page one
then the money starts flowing in the
hard part is not adding affiliate links
the hard part is not joining affiliate
programs the hard part is actually
building a real affiliate marketing
business so affiliate marketing really
relies on consistency and
diversification a lot of people that
teach it on YouTube are like use
ClickBank and it shows you in 15 minutes
here's how to make 100 bucks because
people click on those things the
algorithm rewards lazy content about
making money fast and overnight and
unfortunately that never works in
business or in life so we have to
realize that building this personal
brand building something for ourselves
you can live a dream life and you can
make a lot of money but just extend that
time Horizon out from three months or 90
days or you know I want to make money
this week to I can make money a little
bit of money in three to six months but
I also know that I want to build
something in the background of my life
that doesn't consume my life that I
enjoy doing that can make me money for
years to come
so the thing is you can set up an
affiliate site in a day but it's the
real business strategy that actually
makes you money so if you're interested
in learning the real business strategy
exactly how I make that hundred fifty
thousand dollars a month four hundred
thousand dollars a month with my entire
you know two online businesses we cover
link building affiliate marketing
content all of that stuff in depth what
it takes to run a profitable content
business in the 2020s make sure to click
the link in the description below and
sign up for my free 80 minute Master
Class it's updated and brand new uh it's
free just put your email in and you get
it no questions asked or anything like
that so if you like this video please
let me know if you have any questions on
affiliate marketing it's kind of nuanced
it's very different personalized by the
niche by the individual person so please
like the video that really helps a lot
check out other videos on my channel
subscribe I would really appreciate that
too and I'll see you in the next video