these are the seven mistakes that will
fck your small account on X they'll drop
your engagement to zero and they'll stop
you from ever gr past more than a few
hundred followers the first mistake is
sending automated cold direct messages
with no personalization this could get
your account shadowbanned and stop all
of your momentum before it even starts
and the best way to stop doing this
mistake is to at the very least
personalize your message follow the
Creator that you're direct messaging and
maybe even interact on the timeline
before you send that message the worst
thing that you can do is to tell someone
that you love their content and you're
not even following them it can do a hell
of a lot of damage to your reputation
and stop you from ever being able to
contact that Creator again as they may
have muted you or even blocked you the
second mistake is posting explicit or
hateful content controversy is one of
the most popular ways to grow on X many
creators will use controversial
statements or post crazy videos to get
engagement and get people commenting
because it gets more people to engage
and more people to potentially follow
you but if you go too controversial X
can label you as a hateful account and
potentially shadowban you or the worst
case scenario is X can ban you off the
platform altogether there is a fine line
to Trad and if you want to stop yourself
from doing this have a look at what
other controversial content creators are
doing and always tread that fine line
the third mistake is posting when you
feel like it you need to have a
consistent posting schedule if you want
to grower following on X when X sees
that you're posting content consistently
they will promote your account to more
people also your audience will get used
to you and trust you more as they know
you are going to show up on the timeline
every single day a great way to overcome
this is to schedule your content in
batches and make sure that you're
showing up every day you can use a tool
like hyp Fury to make this super easy
for you the fourth mistake is to only
ever engage with small accounts Elon
recently released the algorithm source
code and in it it says that if you are a
person who only engages with small
accounts your account will be flagged as
somebody of low value to get around this
you need to engage with a mixture of
small medium and large size accounts for
one if you engage with a massive account
they will potentially see your content
and they could repost it or also engage
with you as well that gives you
visibility on the timeline which in turn
gets people to come to your account and
potentially follow you the best way to
engage with big accounts is to drop some
value packed replies if you do that
regularly more people will come a look
at what you're actually creating for
yourself and if you've got a great
account and a good profile picture then
they're going to engage with your stuff
as well the fifth biggest mistake is
using hashtags in your content hashtags
look super spammy and just aesthetically
look terrible so the short answer here
is do not use hashtags in your content
no matter what anybody else tells you
the sixth biggest mistake we see is
using chunks of text in your content
walls of text are impossible to read you
want to create nice neat paragraphs so
that people can read your content easily
think of your writing as an aesthetic
piece of art and make it so that it's
nice for people to consume because if
they like it they're more likely to like
it and repost it into their feed the
simple rule here is if you make your
content easy to read then people will
enjoy reading it and the seventh and
final mistake is only ever sharing value
in your content advice is nice but every
single Creator at the moment is doing it
so share your personal stories a picture
that only you can share and you'll add
some personality to your personal brand
that way you can build a cult around
yourself and not just your niche as
someone who is a guy who gives advice by
the way if you want to grow your ex
account predictably we would suggest
using our growth tool hype Fury if you
want to try it out click the link in the
description below or go to hyp fury.com
for your onewe free trial also click on
this video over here to learn how to go
from Z to 10,000 followers fast thanks
for watching and I'll see you in the
next one